**Notice:** While Javascript is not essential for this website, your interaction with the content will be limited. Please turn Javascript on for the full experience. 

Skip to content

▼ Close

  * [Python](/ "The Python Programming Language" )
  * [PSF](/psf-landing/ "The Python Software Foundation" )
  * [Docs](https://docs.python.org "Python Documentation" )
  * [PyPI](https://pypi.python.org/ "Python Package Index" )
  * [Jobs](/jobs/ "Python Job Board" )
  * [Community](/community/ "Python Community" )

▲ The Python Network

#  [![python™](/static/img/python-logo.png)](/)

≡ Menu Search This Site GO

  * **A A**
    * [Smaller](javascript:; "Make Text Smaller" )
    * [Larger](javascript:; "Make Text Larger" )
    * [Reset](javascript:; "Reset any font size changes I have made" )

  * Socialize
    * [Google+](http://plus.google.com/+Python)
    * [Facebook](http://www.facebook.com/pythonlang?fref=ts)
    * [Twitter](http://twitter.com/ThePSF)
    * [Chat on IRC](/community/irc/)

  * [Sign In](/accounts/login/ "Sign Up or Sign In to Python.org" )
    * [Sign Up / Register](/accounts/signup/)
    * [Sign In](/accounts/login/)

  * [About](/about/ "" )
    * [Applications](/about/apps/ "" )
    * [Quotes](/about/quotes/ "" )
    * [Getting Started](/about/gettingstarted/ "" )
    * [Help](/about/help/ "" )
    * [Python Brochure](http://brochure.getpython.info/ "" )
  * [Downloads](/downloads/ "" )
    * [All releases](/downloads/ "" )
    * [Source code](/downloads/source/ "" )
    * [Windows](/downloads/windows/ "" )
    * [Mac OS X](/downloads/mac-osx/ "" )
    * [Other Platforms](/download/other/ "" )
    * [License](https://docs.python.org/3/license.html "" )
    * [Alternative Implementations](/download/alternatives "" )
  * [Documentation](/doc/ "" )
    * [Docs](/doc/ "" )
    * [Audio/Visual Talks](/doc/av "" )
    * [Beginner's Guide](https://wiki.python.org/moin/BeginnersGuide "" )
    * [Developer's Guide](https://docs.python.org/devguide/ "" )
    * [FAQ](https://docs.python.org/faq/ "" )
    * [Non-English Docs](http://wiki.python.org/moin/Languages "" )
    * [PEP Index](http://python.org/dev/peps/ "" )
    * [Python Books](https://wiki.python.org/moin/PythonBooks "" )
  * [Community](/community/ "" )
    * [Diversity](/community/diversity/ "" )
    * [IRC](/community/irc/ "" )
    * [Mailing Lists](/community/lists/ "" )
    * [Python Conferences](/community/workshops/ "" )
    * [Special Interest Groups](/community/sigs/ "" )
    * [Python Wiki](https://wiki.python.org/moin/ "" )
    * [Python Logo](/community/logos/ "" )
    * [Merchandise](/community/merchandise/ "" )
    * [Community Awards](/community/awards "" )
  * [Success Stories](/about/success/ "success-stories" )
    * [Arts](/about/success/#arts "" )
    * [Business](/about/success/#business "" )
    * [Education](/about/success/#education "" )
    * [Engineering](/about/success/#engineering "" )
    * [Government](/about/success/#government "" )
    * [Scientific](/about/success/#scientific "" )
    * [Software Development](/about/success/#software-development "" )
  * [News](/blogs/ "News from around the Python world" )
    * [Python News](/blogs/ "Python Insider Blog Posts" )
    * [Community News](http://planetpython.org/ "Planet Python" )
    * [PSF News](http://pyfound.blogspot.com/ "PSF Blog" )
    * [PyCon News](http://pycon.blogspot.com/ "PyCon Blog" )
  * [Events](/events/ "" )
    * [Python Events](/events/python-events "" )
    * [User Group Events](/events/python-user-group/ "" )
    * [Python Events Archive](/events/python-events/past/ "" )
    * [User Group Events Archive](/events/python-user-group/past/ "" )
    * [Submit an Event](https://wiki.python.org/moin/PythonEventsCalendar#Submitting_an_Event "" )

  * [&gt;_ Launch Interactive Shell ](/shell/)

  *     # Python 3: Fibonacci series up to n

    >>> def fib(n):

    >>>     a, b = 0, 1

    >>>     while a < n:

    >>>         print(a, end=' ')

    >>>         a, b = b, a+b

    >>>     print()

    >>> fib(1000)

    0 1 1 2 3 5 8 13 21 34 55 89 144 233 377 610 987

# Functions Defined

The core of extensible programming is defining functions. Python allows
mandatory and optional arguments, keyword arguments, and even arbitrary
argument lists. [More about defining functions in Python
3](//docs.python.org/3/tutorial/controlflow.html#defining-functions)

  *     # Python 3: List comprehensions

    >>> fruits = ['Banana', 'Apple', 'Lime']

    >>> loud_fruits = [fruit.upper() for fruit in fruits]

    >>> print(loud_fruits)

    ['BANANA', 'APPLE', 'LIME']

    

    # List and the enumerate function

    >>> list(enumerate(fruits))

    [(0, 'Banana'), (1, 'Apple'), (2, 'Lime')]

# Compound Data Types

Lists (known as arrays in other languages) are one of the compound data types
that Python understands. Lists can be indexed, sliced and manipulated with
other built-in functions. [More about lists in Python
3](//docs.python.org/3/tutorial/introduction.html#lists)

  *     # Python 3: Simple arithmetic

    >>> 1 / 2

    0.5

    >>> 2 ** 3

    8

    >>> 17 / 3  # classic division returns a float

    5.666666666666667

    >>> 17 // 3  # floor division

    5

# Intuitive Interpretation

Calculations are simple with Python, and expression syntax is straightforward:
the operators `+`, `-`, `*` and `/` work as expected; parentheses `()` can be
used for grouping. [More about simple math functions in Python
3](http://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/introduction.html#using-python-
as-a-calculator).

  *     # Python 3: Simple output (with Unicode)

    >>> print("Hello, I'm Python!")

    Hello, I'm Python!

    

    # Input, assignment

    >>> name = input('What is your name?\n')

    >>> print('Hi, %s.' % name)

    What is your name?

    Python

    Hi, Python.

# Quick &amp; Easy to Learn

Experienced programmers in any other language can pick up Python very quickly,
and beginners find the clean syntax and indentation structure easy to learn.
[Whet your appetite](//docs.python.org/3/tutorial/) with our Python 3
overview.

  *     # For loop on a list

    >>> numbers = [2, 4, 6, 8]

    >>> product = 1

    >>> for number in numbers:

    ...    product = product * number

    ... 

    >>> print('The product is:', product)

    The product is: 384

# All the Flow You'd Expect

Python knows the usual control flow statements that other languages speak --
`if`, `for`, `while` and `range` -- with some of its own twists, of course.
[More control flow tools in Python
3](//docs.python.org/3/tutorial/controlflow.html)

Python is a programming language that lets you work quickly and integrate
systems more effectively. [Learn More](/doc/)

## Get Started

Whether you're new to programming or an experienced developer, it's easy to
learn and use Python.

[Start with our Beginner's Guide](/about/gettingstarted/)

## Download

Python source code and installers are available for download for all versions!
Not sure which version to use? [Check
here](https://wiki.python.org/moin/Python2orPython3).

Latest: [Python 3.6.0](/downloads/release/python-360/) \- [Python
2.7.13](/downloads/release/python-2713/)

## Docs

Documentation for Python's standard library, along with tutorials and guides,
are available online.

[docs.python.org](https://docs.python.org)

## Jobs

Looking for work or have a Python related position that you're trying to hire
for? Our **relaunched community-run job board** is the place to go.

[jobs.python.org](//jobs.python.org)

## Latest News

[More](http://blog.python.org "More News" )

  * 2017-01-17 [Python 3.5.3 and Python 3.4.6 are now available for download. ...](http://feedproxy.google.com/~r/PythonInsider/~3/NeIHRAidlpc/python-353-and-346-are-now-available.html)
  * 2017-01-03 [Python 3.5.3rc1 and Python 3.4.6rc1 are now available for download. ...](http://feedproxy.google.com/~r/PythonInsider/~3/UoiMThSwgQM/python-353rc1-and-python-346rc1-are-now.html)
  * 2016-12-23 [Python 3.6.0 is now available!   Python 3.6.0 is the ...](http://feedproxy.google.com/~r/PythonInsider/~3/4gOtq8ChYHk/python-360-is-now-available.html)
  * 2016-12-17 [The latest bugfix release of the Python 2.7.13 series is ...](http://feedproxy.google.com/~r/PythonInsider/~3/LLpTSlyUots/python-2713-released.html)
  * 2016-12-17 [Python 3.6.0rc2 is the second release candidate for Python 3.6, ...](http://feedproxy.google.com/~r/PythonInsider/~3/4x7DmyL7LXQ/python-360-release-candidate-2-is-now.html)

## Upcoming Events

[More](/events/calendars/ "More Events" )

  * 2017-02-10 [PyCon Colombia 2017](/events/python-events/481/)
  * 2017-02-16 [PyCon Pune 2017](/events/python-events/474/)
  * 2017-02-17 [Iran Pycon "IrPycon"](/events/python-events/479/)
  * 2017-02-17 [Swiss Python Summit](/events/python-events/482/)
  * 2017-02-19 [PyWeek 23 - Python community game jam](/events/python-events/500/)

## Success Stories

[More](/success-stories/ "More Success Stories" )

> [ILM runs a batch processing environment capable of modeling, rendering and
compositing tens of thousands of motion picture frames per day. Thousands of
machines running Linux, IRIX, Compaq Tru64, OS X, Solaris, and Windows join
together to provide a production pipeline used by ~800 users daily. Speed of
development is key, and Python was a faster way to code (and re-code) the
programs that control this production pipeline.](/success-stories/industrial-
light-magic-runs-python/)

[Industrial Light &amp; Magic Runs on Python](/success-stories/industrial-
light-magic-runs-python/) _by Tim Fortenberry_  
  
---  
  
## Use Python for…

[More](/about/apps "More Applications" )

  * **Web Development**: [Django](http://www.djangoproject.com/), [Pyramid](http://www.pylonsproject.org/), [Bottle](http://bottlepy.org), [Tornado](http://tornadoweb.org), [Flask](http://flask.pocoo.org/), [web2py](http://www.web2py.com/)
  * **GUI Development**: [tkInter](http://wiki.python.org/moin/TkInter), [PyGObject](https://wiki.gnome.org/Projects/PyGObject), [PyQt](http://www.riverbankcomputing.co.uk/software/pyqt/intro), [PySide](https://wiki.qt.io/PySide), [Kivy](https://kivy.org/), [wxPython](http://www.wxpython.org/)
  * **Scientific and Numeric**:  [SciPy](http://www.scipy.org), [Pandas](http://pandas.pydata.org/), [IPython](http://ipython.org)
  * **Software Development**: [Buildbot](http://buildbot.net/), [Trac](http://trac.edgewall.org/), [Roundup](http://roundup.sourceforge.net/)
  * **System Administration**: [Ansible](http://www.ansible.com), [Salt](http://www.saltstack.com), [OpenStack](https://www.openstack.org)

##  &gt;&gt;&gt; [Python Enhancement Proposals (PEPs)](/dev/peps/): The future
of Python is discussed here. [ RSS](/dev/peps/peps.rss)

##  &gt;&gt;&gt; [Python Software Foundation](/psf/)

The mission of the Python Software Foundation is to promote, protect, and
advance the Python programming language, and to support and facilitate the
growth of a diverse and international community of Python programmers. [Learn
more](/psf/)

[Become a Member](/users/membership/) [Donate to the PSF](/psf/donations/)

▲ Back to Top

  * [About](/about/)
    * [Applications](/about/apps/ "" )
    * [Quotes](/about/quotes/ "" )
    * [Getting Started](/about/gettingstarted/ "" )
    * [Help](/about/help/ "" )
    * [Python Brochure](http://brochure.getpython.info/ "" )
  * [Downloads](/downloads/)
    * [All releases](/downloads/ "" )
    * [Source code](/downloads/source/ "" )
    * [Windows](/downloads/windows/ "" )
    * [Mac OS X](/downloads/mac-osx/ "" )
    * [Other Platforms](/download/other/ "" )
    * [License](https://docs.python.org/3/license.html "" )
    * [Alternative Implementations](/download/alternatives "" )
  * [Documentation](/doc/)
    * [Docs](/doc/ "" )
    * [Audio/Visual Talks](/doc/av "" )
    * [Beginner's Guide](https://wiki.python.org/moin/BeginnersGuide "" )
    * [Developer's Guide](https://docs.python.org/devguide/ "" )
    * [FAQ](https://docs.python.org/faq/ "" )
    * [Non-English Docs](http://wiki.python.org/moin/Languages "" )
    * [PEP Index](http://python.org/dev/peps/ "" )
    * [Python Books](https://wiki.python.org/moin/PythonBooks "" )
  * [Community](/community/)
    * [Diversity](/community/diversity/ "" )
    * [IRC](/community/irc/ "" )
    * [Mailing Lists](/community/lists/ "" )
    * [Python Conferences](/community/workshops/ "" )
    * [Special Interest Groups](/community/sigs/ "" )
    * [Python Wiki](https://wiki.python.org/moin/ "" )
    * [Python Logo](/community/logos/ "" )
    * [Merchandise](/community/merchandise/ "" )
    * [Community Awards](/community/awards "" )
  * [Success Stories](/about/success/ "success-stories" )
    * [Arts](/about/success/#arts "" )
    * [Business](/about/success/#business "" )
    * [Education](/about/success/#education "" )
    * [Engineering](/about/success/#engineering "" )
    * [Government](/about/success/#government "" )
    * [Scientific](/about/success/#scientific "" )
    * [Software Development](/about/success/#software-development "" )
  * [News](/blogs/ "News from around the Python world" )
    * [Python News](/blogs/ "Python Insider Blog Posts" )
    * [Community News](http://planetpython.org/ "Planet Python" )
    * [PSF News](http://pyfound.blogspot.com/ "PSF Blog" )
    * [PyCon News](http://pycon.blogspot.com/ "PyCon Blog" )
  * [Events](/events/)
    * [Python Events](/events/python-events "" )
    * [User Group Events](/events/python-user-group/ "" )
    * [Python Events Archive](/events/python-events/past/ "" )
    * [User Group Events Archive](/events/python-user-group/past/ "" )
    * [Submit an Event](https://wiki.python.org/moin/PythonEventsCalendar#Submitting_an_Event "" )
  * [Contributing](/dev/)
    * [Developer's Guide](http://docs.python.org/devguide/ "" )
    * [Issue Tracker](http://bugs.python.org/ "" )
    * [python-dev list](https://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/python-dev "" )
    * [Core Mentorship](/dev/core-mentorship/ "" )

▲ Back to Top

  * [Help &amp; General Contact](/about/help/)
  * [Diversity Initiatives](/community/diversity/)
  * [Submit Website Bug](https://github.com/python/pythondotorg/issues)
  * [Status ](https://status.python.org/)

Copyright (C)2001-2017.  [Python Software Foundation](/psf-landing/)  [Legal
Statements](/about/legal/)  [Privacy Policy](/privacy/)
